Mrj final review ch5 and 7 (#399)
worldbank/d4di: chapters/publication.tex

that a mistake will be made or something will be missed.
Therefore this is a broadly unsuitable way to prepare technical documents.

> However, the most widely utilized software

Reviewer: What is the "However" referring back to?

> However, the most widely utilized software

Author: ```suggestion
The most widely utilized software
```

for dynamically managing both text and results is \LaTeX\ (pronounced ``lah-tek'').\sidenote{
	\url{https://github.com/worldbank/DIME-LaTeX-Templates}}
\index{\LaTeX}
\LaTeX\ is a document preparation and typesetting system with a unique syntax.
While this tool has a significant learning curve,
its enormous flexibility in terms of operation, collaboration, output formatting, and styling
make it the primary choice for most large technical outputs.
In fact, \LaTeX\ operates behind-the-scenes in many other dynamic document tools (discussed below).
Therefore, we recommend that you learn to use \LaTeX\ directly
as soon as you are able to and provide several resources for doing so in the next section.

> There are also code-based tools that can be used for dynamic documents, 

Reviewer: Latex is technically also code based, but not really a script.

```suggestion
There are tools that can generate dynamic documents from within your scripts, 
```

such as R's RMarkdown\sidenote{\url{https://rmarkdown.rstudio.com}}

> and Stata's \texttt{dyndoc}.\sidenote{\url{https://www.stata.com/manuals/rptdyndoc.pdf}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Stata offers a built-in package for dynamic documents, \texttt{dyndoc}\sidenote{\url{https://www.stata.com/manuals/rptdyndoc.pdf}}, and user-written commands such \texttt{texdoc}\sidenote{\url{http://repec.sowi.unibe.ch/stata/texdoc}} and \texttt{markstat}\sidenote{\url{https://data.princeton.edu/stata/markdown}} allow for additional functionalities.
```

These tools ``knit'' or ``weave'' text and code together,
and are programmed to insert code outputs in pre-specified locations.
Documents called ``notebooks'' (such as Jupyter\sidenote{\url{https://jupyter.org}}) work similarly,
as they also use the underlying analytical software to create the document.
These tools are usually appropriate for short or informal documents

> because they tend to offer restricted editability outside the base software

Reviewer: I am not fond of "base software". 

```suggestion
because it tends to be difficult to edit the content unless using the tool 
```
If this edits is accepted then next part of this sentence needs to be updated

> and often have limited abilities to incorporate precise formatting.

Reviewer: Precise is probably not the best word here. I'd say that nothing is as precise as LaTeX, but it might not be as comprehensive in terms of formatting options.

```suggestion
and often does not have as extensive formatting option as, for example, Word.
```

There are also simple tools for dynamic documents
that do not require direct operation of the underlying code or software,
simply access to the updated outputs.
An example of this is Dropbox Paper,
a free online writing tool that allows linkages to files in Dropbox
which are automatically updated anytime the file is replaced.

> They have limited functionality in terms of version control and formatting,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They have limited functionality in terms of version control and formatting,
and may never include any references to confidential data,
```

with \LaTeX\ before adopting one of these tools.
They can require a lot of troubleshooting at a basic level at first,

> and non-technical staff may not be willing or able to acquire the required knowledge.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and staff that is not used to programming may not be willing or able to acquire the required knowledge.
```

\subsection{Getting started with \LaTeX\ in the cloud}

\LaTeX\ is a challenging tool to get started using,
but the control it offers over the writing process is invaluable.
In order to make it as easy as possible for your team
to use \LaTeX\ without all members having to invest in new skills,
we suggest using a cloud-based implementation as your first foray into \LaTeX\ writing.
Most such sites offer a subscription feature with useful extensions and various sharing permissions,
and some offer free-to-use versions with basic tools that are sufficient
for a broad variety of applications,
up to and including writing a complete academic paper with coauthors.

Cloud-based implementations of \LaTeX\ have several advantageous features.
First, since they are completely hosted online,
they avoid the inevitable troubleshooting required to set up a \LaTeX\ installation
on various personal computers run by the different members of a team.
Second, they typically maintain a single, continuously synced, master copy of the document
so that different writers do not create conflicted or out-of-sync copies,
or need to deal with Git themselves to maintain that sync.

> Third, they typically allow collaborators to edit in a fashion similar to Google Docs,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Third, they typically allow collaborators to edit documents simultaneously,
```

though different services vary the number of collaborators and documents allowed at each tier.
Fourth, and most usefully, some implementations provide a ``rich text'' editor
that behaves pretty similarly to familiar tools like Word,
so that collaborators can write text directly into the document without worrying too much
about the underlying \LaTeX\ coding.
Cloud services also usually offer a convenient selection of templates
so it is easy to start up a project and see results right away
without needing to know a lot of the code that controls document formatting.

Cloud-based implementations of \LaTeX\ also have disadvantages.

> There is a small amount of up-front learning required,

Reviewer 2: The up-front learning in terms  of syntax is the same as in a desktop app, unless you're using the rich-text editor

Author: addressed in 4aa5ec3186f697a9b1ed4dcb9bb037e9e7477c9f

continous access to the Internet is necessary,
and updating figures and tables requires a bulk file upload that is tough to automate.

> A common problem you will face using online editors is special characters

Reviewer: This sentence is too granular to fit in the book IMHO. And if we should keep it we should not keep it in a cloud specific section. We could perhaps move it next to `what-you-see-is-what-you-get' around line 127, as an example when what you see is what you get does not apply.

Author: I'm fine with moving this to a wiki article

Reviewer 2: I agree. I think we can remove the next 6 lines. This is true of all LaTeX use, no matter if it's in the cloud or not.

Reviewer: move to wiki or to our latex training

Author: done in cc13a138fc94fd7df3dc6a9af8047e88ec7a3a8b

and double-checking all datasets for potentially identifying information.

\subsection{Publishing data for replication}

Publicly documenting all original data generated as part of a research project 
is an important contribution in its own right.
Your paper should clearly cite the data used,
where and how it is stored, and how and under what circumstances it may be accessed.
You may not be able to publish the data itself, 
due to licensing agreements or ethical concerns.
Even if you cannot release data immediately or publicly,
there are often options to catalog or archive the data.
These may take the form of metadata catalogs or embargoed releases.
Such setups allow you to hold an archival version of your data
which your publication can reference,
and provide information about the contents of the datasets
and how future users might request permission to access them
(even if you are not the person to grant that permission).
They can also provide for timed future releases of datasets
once the need for exclusive access has ended.

If your project collected original data,
releasing the cleaned dataset is a significant contribution that can be made

> in addition to any publication of analysis results.\sidenote{

Reviewer 2: This seem repetitive with the previous paragraph. Maybe we remove the first three lines and move the citation?

Author: addressed in 4a75b156edd45d4059ada18a5ce30972f7256a7f

once the need for exclusive access has ended.

If your project collected original data,
releasing the cleaned dataset is a significant contribution that can be made
in addition to any publication of analysis results.\sidenote{
  \url{https://www.povertyactionlab.org/sites/default/files/resources/J-PAL-guide-to-publishing-research-data.pdf}}
It allows other researchers to validate the mechanical construction of your results,
to investigate what other results might be obtained from the same population,
and test alternative approaches or answer other questions.
This fosters collaboration and may enable your team to fully explore variables and
questions that you may not have time to focus on otherwise.
There are different options for data publication.
The World Bank's Development Data Hub\sidenote{
	\url{https://datacatalog.worldbank.org}}
includes a Microdata Catalog\sidenote{
\url{https://microdata.worldbank.org}}
and a Geospatial Catalog,
where researchers can publish data and documentation for their projects.\sidenote{
\url{https://dimewiki.worldbank.org/Microdata\_Catalog}
\newline
\url{https://dimewiki.worldbank.org/Checklist:\_Microdata\_Catalog\_submission}

> }

Reviewer 2: Add line here to resolve #371 :

DIME has its own collection of data sets in the Microdata Catalog, 
where data from our projects is published.\sidenote{\url{
https://microdata.worldbank.org/catalog/dime}}

The Harvard Dataverse\sidenote{
	\url{https://dataverse.harvard.edu}}
publishes both data and code. 
The Datahub for Field Experiments in Economics and Public Policy\sidenote{\url{https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataverse/DFEEP}} 
is especially relevant for impact evaluations. 
Both the World Bank Microdata Catalog and the Harvard Dataverse

> create data citations for deposited entries.

Reviewer 2: Add line here to resolve #371 :

DIME has its own collection of data sets in the Microdata Catalog,
where data from our projects is published.\sidenote{\url{
https://microdata.worldbank.org/catalog/dime}}

Author: done in 90a7e953f8ab0a71754e1ad75188bee681ab764f

particularly where definitions may vary,
so that others can learn from your work and adapt it as they like.

\subsection{De-identifying data for publication}

> Therefore, before publishing data,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before publishing data,
```

you should carefully perform a \textbf{final de-identification}.

> Its objective is to create a dataset for publication

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Its objective is to reduce the risk of disclosing confidential information in the published data set.
```

most approaches fundamentally rely on judging ``how harmful'' information disclosure would be.
The fact remains that there is always a balance between information release (and therefore transparency)
and privacy protection, and that you should engage with it actively and explicitly.
The best thing you can do is make a complete record of the steps that have been taken
so that the process can be reviewed, revised, and updated as necessary.

In cases where PII data is required for analysis,
we recommend embargoing the sensitive variables when publishing the data.
Access to the embargoed data could be granted for specific purposes,
such as a computational reproducibility check required for publication,
if done under careful data security protocols and approved by an IRB.

\subsection{Publishing code for replication}

Before publishing your code, you should edit it for content and clarity
just as if it were written material.
The purpose of releasing code is to allow others to understand
exactly what you have done in order to obtain your results,
as well as to apply similar methods in future projects.
Therefore it should both be functional and readable

> (if you've followed the recommendations in Chapter Six,

Reviewer: I think "this book" is better as it also includes folder structures in data management etc.

Author: ```suggestion
(if you've followed the recommendations in this book
```

over the next few years;
the specific solutions we mention here highlight some current approaches
as well as their strengths and weaknesses.

> On option is GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One option is GitHub.
```

> (However, there is a strict size restriction of 100MB per file and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(There is a strict size restriction of 100MB per file and
```

a restriction on the size of the repository as a whole,
so larger projects will need alternative solutions.)

> However, GitHub is not ideal for other reasons.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion:

However, GitHub is not the ideal platform to release reproducibility packages.
It is built to version control code, and to facilitate collaboration on it.
Features to look for in a platform to release such packages and that are not offered by GitHub, include:
the possibility to store data and documentation as well as code, 
the creation of a static copy of its content, that cannot be changed or removed,
and the assignment of a permanent digital object identifier (DOI) link.

Author: changed to your suggestion in 09b05010f5d0473fbcec302d63493cdf38c52987
